All HTML documents have the same basic structure or boilerplate 
that needs to be in place before anything useful can be done.

HTML Files have .html filetype 
Always have homepage of website on index.html

Every HTML page starts with a doctype declaration. 
The doctype’s purpose is to tell the browser what version of 
HTML it should use to render the document. The latest version of 
HTML is HTML5, and the doctype for that version is simply 
<!DOCTYPE html>.

After we declare the doctype, we need to provide an <html> element. 
This is what’s known as the root element of the document, meaning 
that every other element in the document will be a descendant of it.

lang specifies the language of the text content in that element. 
This attribute is primarily used for improving accessibility of the 
webpage. It allows assistive technologies, for example screen readers, 
to adapt according to the language and invoke correct pronunciation.

The <head> element is where we put important meta-information 
about our webpages, and stuff required for our webpages to render 
correctly in the browser. Inside the <head>, we should not use any 
element that displays content on the webpage.

We should always have the meta tag for the charset encoding of 
the webpage in the head element: <meta charset="utf-8">. Setting 
the encoding is very important because it ensures that the webpage 
will display special symbols and characters from different languages 
correctly in the browser.

Another element we should always include in the head of an 
HTML document is the title element: <title>My First Webpage</title> 
The title element is used to give webpages a human-readable title 
which is displayed in our webpage’s browser tab.

The final element needed to complete the HTML boilerplate 
is the <body> element. This is where all the content that will 
be displayed to users will go - the text, images, lists, links, and 
so on.

VSCode has a built-in shortcut you can use for generating 
all the boilerplate in one go. Please note that this shortcut 
only works while editing a file with the ‘.html’ extension or a text 
file with the HTML language already selected. To trigger the shortcut, 
delete everything in the index.html file and just enter ! on the first 
line. This will bring up a couple of options. Press the enter key to 
choose the first one, and voila, you should have all the boilerplate 
populated for you.