At the most basic level, CSS is made up of various rules. These rules 
are made up of a selector (more on this in a bit) and a semi-colon 
separated list of declarations, with each of those declarations being 
made up of a property:value pair.

A <div> is one of the basic HTML elements. It is simply an empty 
container. In general, it is best to use other tags such as <h1> or 
<p> for content in your projects, but as we learn more about CSS you’ll 
find that there are many cases where the thing you need is just a 
container for other elements. Many of our exercises use plain <div>s 
for simplicity.

Selectors simply refer to the HTML elements to which CSS rules apply; 
they’re what is actually being “selected” for each rule. The following 
subsections don’t cover every selector available, but they’re by far 
the most common and the ones you should get comfortable using first.

The universal selector will select elements of any type, hence the 
name “universal”, and the syntax for it is a simple asterisk.

A type selector (or element selector) will select all elements of the 
given element type, and the syntax is just the name of the element

Class selectors will select all elements with the given class, which 
is just an attribute you place on an HTML element. Here’s how you add 
a class to an HTML tag and select it in CSS

Note the syntax for class selectors: a period immediately followed by 
the case-sensitive value of the class attribute. Classes aren’t required 
to be unique, so you can use the same class on as many elements as you 
want. Another thing you can do with the class attribute is to add 
multiple classes to a single element as a space-separated list, such as 
class="alert-text severe-alert". Since whitespace is used to separate 
class names like this, you should never use spaces for multi-worded 
names and should use a hyphen instead.

ID selectors are similar to class selectors. They select an element 
with the given ID, which is another attribute you place on an HTML 
element

Instead of a period, we use a hashtag immediately followed by the 
case-sensitive value of the ID attribute. A common pitfall is people 
overusing the ID attribute when they don’t necessarily need to, and 
when classes will suffice. While there are cases where using an ID 
makes sense or is needed, such as taking advantage of specificity or 
having links redirect to a section on the current page, you should use 
IDs sparingly (if at all). The major difference between classes and 
IDs is that an element can only have one ID. An ID cannot be repeated 
on a single page, and the ID attribute should not contain any 
whitespace at all.

What if we have two groups of elements that share some of their style 
declarations? Both our .read and .unread selectors share the color: 
white; and background-color: black; declarations, but otherwise have 
several of their own unique declarations. To cut down on the repetition, 
we can group these two selectors together as a comma-separated list. 
Both of the examples above (with and without grouping) will have the 
same result, but the second example reduces the repetition of 
declarations and makes it easier to edit either the color or 
background-color for both classes at once.

What if we have two groups of elements that share some of their style 
declarations? Both our .read and .unread selectors share the 
color: white; and background-color: black; declarations, but otherwise 
have several of their own unique declarations. To cut down on the 
repetition, we can group these two selectors together as a 
comma-separated list. Both of the examples above (with and without 
grouping) will have the same result, but the second example reduces 
the repetition of declarations and makes it easier to edit either the 
color or background-color for both classes at once.